Our prior research demonstrated that an anti-TREM2 antibody, when combined with cytokines, induces robust pro-inflammatory macrophage activity in vitro. We have successfully produced TREM2 immunocytokines, including an IL-2-anti-TREM2 fusion protein, and developed a masking strategy for the cytokine arm using TAM-specific protease-responsive blocking moieties, validated in vivo. Utilizing an in vitro system for bone-marrow-derived monocyte differentiation towards M2 suppressor macrophages, we incorporated a control using TREM2-/- monocytes, which do not differentiate towards M2 macrophages under cytokine-induced conditions. This system allows co-culture with myeloid and NK-T cells, followed by scRNA-seq analysis to assess the impact of 8-10 selected cytokines in combination with our anti-TREM2 mAb, comparing these effects to those of co-cultured T cells and TREM2-/- myeloid cells. We also developed a platform to overexpress cytokines using barcoded tumor cell lines, enabling in vivo screening of 5-8 promising cytokines in combination with anti-TREM2 mAbs, with downstream scRNA-seq analysis for data-driven selection of 3-5 optimal cytokines.   Furthermore, Zman-seq analysis revealed a temporal trajectory of monocyte to TAM differentiation, with infiltrating Plac8high monocytes differentiating to Gpnmbhigh regulatory macrophages.   TREM2 inhibition via aTREM2 antibody treatment in vivo, resulted in a distinct TAM population compared to control, exhibiting downregulation of immunosuppressive genes such as Arg1, Pirb, Il18bp, Vegfa, and Cd274, and upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes including Ccl3, Ccl4, Cd81, and Cd83. This was further supported by a bifurcation of monocyte-to-TAM trajectories between control and aTREM2 groups. Early changes upon TREM2 inhibition included the rapid upregulation of Ccl4, Cd81, and inhibition of the early upregulation of genes such as Chil3, and Plac8. In vitro studies using bone-marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) also showed that TREM2 inhibition with aTREM2 antibody in vitro recapitulates in vivo effects by disrupting monocyte-to-TAM transition.
